I want to change the PMP messaging business rule.

CURRENT BUSINESS RULE:
Only users with an active subscription should be able to initiate or send messages to other users.

This is a deliberate product decision. Do not assume messaging should remain free.

Please implement this carefully and minimally.

REQUIREMENT:

Before a user can send a message, the backend must verify that the authenticated user has an active subscription.

The subscription check must happen on the BACKEND, not only in the frontend.

The frontend may display a helpful locked/subscription UI, but frontend checks alone are not sufficient.

EXPECTED FLOW:

User clicks Send
→ Clerk authentication is verified
→ PMP identity is resolved
→ user's subscription status is checked
→ if subscription is active:
    → permission check continues
    → message is sent normally
→ if subscription is inactive:
    → message is rejected
    → return a clear appropriate HTTP response
    → do not insert the message into the database

IMPORTANT:
Do not silently fail.

Use an appropriate response such as:

403 Forbidden

with a structured error response similar to:

{
  "error": {
    "code": "SUBSCRIPTION_REQUIRED",
    "message": "An active subscription is required to send messages."
  }
}

Before making changes, investigate the existing billing/subscription architecture.

Search for and understand:

- subscription database schema
- billing service
- subscription status
- entitlements
- getEntitlements
- hasActiveSubscription
- Paystack integration
- billing routes
- billing middleware
- existing subscription plans
- existing user subscription fields
- existing payment status logic

Do not invent a second subscription system if one already exists.

Use the existing subscription/billing architecture wherever possible.

IMPORTANT PRODUCT RULE:

For now, apply the subscription requirement to MESSAGE SENDING.

Determine whether the intended behavior should be:

A. Only the sender needs an active subscription to send a message

or

B. Both users need active subscriptions before a conversation can be created or messages can be sent.

Use the existing product architecture to determine the cleanest implementation, but if the current architecture does not clearly establish this distinction, implement the simplest rule:

A user must have an active subscription to send a message.

Do not unnecessarily block users from receiving messages.

The backend must be the source of truth.

FRONTEND REQUIREMENTS:

If the user is not subscribed and attempts to send a message:

- do not clear the typed draft
- show a clear message such as:
  "You need an active subscription to send messages."
- provide a clear path/button to the subscription or billing page if one already exists
- do not show a generic "Something went wrong"
- do not make the user retype their message

The message composer should remain usable, but the send action should be blocked gracefully.

OPTIONAL UX IMPROVEMENT:

If subscription status is already available through the existing billing API, the frontend may disable the Send button before the request is made.

However, this is only a UX optimization.

The backend must still enforce the subscription requirement because users can bypass frontend checks.

SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:

Do not trust:
- frontend state
- localStorage
- Clerk unsafeMetadata
- client-provided subscription status

The backend must determine the user's actual subscription status from the database/payment system.

Do not allow the client to send something like:

{
  "isSubscribed": true
}

and trust it.

VALIDATION:

After implementing:

1. Test an authenticated user with an active subscription:
   - send message
   - verify HTTP 2xx
   - verify message is inserted into the database

2. Test an authenticated user without an active subscription:
   - attempt to send message
   - verify HTTP 403
   - verify error code is SUBSCRIPTION_REQUIRED
   - verify no message is inserted into the database
   - verify the draft remains intact

3. Verify that existing messaging permissions still work correctly.

4. Verify that the frontend displays a useful subscription-required message.

5. Verify that existing working features are not broken.

Run:

- frontend typecheck
- backend typecheck
- backend tests
- frontend production build

FINAL REPORT MUST INCLUDE:

1. Exact root cause/architecture of the existing subscription system
2. Exact subscription status used to determine access
3. Exact backend files changed
4. Exact frontend files changed
5. Exact endpoint/middleware where subscription enforcement happens
6. Exact HTTP response returned to unsubscribed users
7. Whether the database schema was changed
8. Whether any secrets or environment variables were changed
9. Test results
10. Whether it is safe to push to GitHub and deploy